
Using 見損なう and 見直す

When 損なう follows the masu-stem of verbs, it means to fail to do the action. 

今朝寝坊していつもの電車に乗り損なった.
- I got up late and missed usual train this morning.


Therefore, 見損なう means to fail to see/watch.

決勝戦をテレビで見損なった。明日だと思ってた。
- I failed to watch the final match on TV. I thought it was tomorrow.

メッシがスーパーゴールを決めた時、トイレに行ってた。一番興奮するところを見損なった。
- I was in the bathroom when Messi scored the super goal. I missed seeing the most exciting moment.



When 直す follows the masu-stem of verbs, it means to to do the action again. 

そのレポートは書き直した方がいい。間違いが多すぎる。
- You had better re-write the report. It has too many mistakes.


Therefore, 見直す means to re-examin or have another look.

このレポートは何度も見直しましたから、間違いはないと思います。
- I don't think this report has mistakes. I reviewed it again and again.

この計画は見直す必要がある。コストが予算を大幅に超えている。
- We must reexamine the plan. The cost significantly exceeds the budget.



見損なう and 見直す have another meanings.

見損なう is also used when you realize that you have overrated someone and are disappointed in them.
For example, if you realize that someone has been lying you even though you have thought that they were a good person, or if your friend ran away leaving you when bad guys picked a fight with you, you can say "君のことを見損なった." 
(In the second example, "君のことを見損なった" implies that you have thought that he was brave.)
It mainly used when you are disappointed in someone's character, not ability. For example, you can say it when someone easily gives up to challenge a difficult test, but it's unnatural to say it when they failed the test. 


見直す is the opposite of the 見損なう. It means to give someone more credit. It's used when you realize that you have underestimated someone and you give them a fair evaluation. Unlike 見損なう, it's also used for things or someone's ability.


あの有名なミュージシャンが毎週知らない人に歌を歌って励ますために病院に行ってたとは知らなかった。彼を見直した。
- I didn't know that the famous musician goes to a hospital to sing song and cheer up people he doesn't know every week. I have to give him more credit.

この車は安かったけど10年間故障していない。見直した。
- This car was cheap, but it hasn't broken down for ten years. I like it than before.
