
で, which is following a noun, has several usages. I will try to classify the usage of で.

1:
で is used for specifying a place in the following examples. You can replace で with にて.
	公園で彼に会った   -  I met him at the park.
	ベッドで眠る - I am sleeping on the bed.
	京都で撮った写真です - I took this picture in Kyoto.

	A place may be an abstract place. 
	彼は天国で眠っています - He sleeps in heaven.

2:
で is used for specifying a reason  in the following examples. You can replace で with のため.
	病気で寝ている - I'm ill in bed.
	事故でけがした - I was injured in the accident.	

3:
で is used for specifying a method in the following examples. You can replace で withを使って.
	電車で行く - I went to there by train.
	水で火を消す - I quenched fire with water.

	においを鼻で感じる  -  I smell something.
	頭で考える  -  I think with my head.

4:
You may think で is used for specifying a place in the following examples, but these can be expressed by using 'when'. You can replace で with の時.
	高校で習った  -  I learned it when I was a high school student.
	京都旅行で撮った写真です - This is a picture I took when I traveled to Kyoto.

5:
I think this usage of で may be grammatically incorrect , but some Japanese people  use this phrase when they order in a restaurant. I got used to hearing this usage.
	コーヒーでお願いします - I would like a cup of coffee. 

6:
I'm not sure whether it is a choice or method. I don't know which word I can use instead of で.
	ビールで乾杯しよう - Let's start off with some beer.

7:	
I'm not sure but I feel it expresses a status.	I don't know which word I can use instead of で.  I think a noun before で is always the number of people or a similar object in this usage.
	ひとりで遊んだ - I played alone.
	夫婦で旅行した - We traveled there as a couple.

8:
I can't explain well about the following examples but you can replace で with を通じて.
	テレビで見た - I saw it on TV.
	ラジオで聞いた - I heard it on the wireless.
	…と噂で聞いた - People say that….

	I am not sure I can classify this usage into here.
	夢で見た - I saw it in my dream.

9:
I can't classify this usage, but this is a natural Japanese sentence.
	試合で彼に負けた  -  I lost to him in that match.

