
The usage of そうだ.

そうだ is used to describe your guesses, and also used to describe hearsay.
You have to change the form of the preceding word regarding usage.

彼は、iPadが欲しい そうだ。
This sentence means "I heard that he wants an iPad" and implies the speaker has heard it from himself or someone else. When そうだ comes after a verb which describe someone's desire and end with い, it is used to describe hearsay.

彼が、iPadが欲し そうだ。
On the other hand, this sentence means "He seems to want an iPad." When そうだ comes after a verb that describes someone's desire and the final い is dropped, it is used to describe your guesses.

Here are some examples:
彼は、日本へ行きたい そうだ。- I heard that he wants to go to Japan.
彼は、日本へ行きた    そうだ。- He seems to want to go to Japan.

彼は、東京マラソンを走りたい そうだ。- I heard that he wants to run Tokyo Marathon.
彼は、東京マラソンを走りた    そうだ。- He seems to want to run Tokyo Marathon.

彼は、寿司を食べたい そうだ。- I heard that he wants to eat sushi.
彼は、寿司を食べた    そうだ。- he seems to want to eat sushi.
(Be careful, "彼は寿司を食べたそうだ" can also be read as "I heard that he ate sushi.")


その料理はおいしい そうだ。
This sentence means "I heard that meal is delicious." When そうだ comes after a I-adjective, it is used to describe hearsay.

その料理はおいし そうだ。
On the other hand, this sentence means "That meal seems to be delicious." When そうだ comes after a I-adjective that the final い is dropped, it is used to describe your guesses.

Here are some examples:
そのゲームは、楽しい そうだ。- I heard the video game is fun.
そのゲームは、楽し    そうだ。- The video game seems to be fun.

そのゲームは、高い そうだ。- I heard the video game is expensive.
そのゲームは、高    そうだ。- The video game seems to be expensive.


そのテストは簡単だ そうだ。
This sentence means "I heard the exam is easy." When そうだ comes after a Na-adjective which ends with だ, it is used to describe hearsay.

そのテストは簡単 そうだ。
On the other hand, this sentence means "The exam seems to be easy." When そうだ comes after a na-adjective which does not end with だ, it is used to describe your guesses.

Here are some examples:
彼は、親切だ そうだ。- I heard that he is kind.
彼は、親切    そうだ。- He seems to be kind.

彼は、英語が上手だ そうだ。- I heard that he is good at English.
彼は、英語が上手    そうだ。- He seems to be good at English.
