
ように

I will explain ように, but there are a lot of  usages and it's difficult to explain detailed nuances. 


1.
In the following example, ように means "just as …".

私が言う ように しなさい - Do as I say.


2.
In the following examples, ように means "like". のように is put after a noun in this usage.

その犬はぬいぐるみの ように かわいい - The dog is as cute as a stuffed animal.
彼はさかなの ように 泳ぐ - He swims like a fish.


3.
In the following examples, ように means "seems". 

彼は病気だった ように 見えた - He seemed to have been ill. 
彼はおこっている ように 思えた - He seems to be angry.


4-1. 
In the following examples, ようにしなさい means "please take care". You can omit the rest of the sentence after ように in this case when you order someone to do something.

時間を無駄にしない ように しなさい - Let's not waste time.
二度と遅刻しない ように - Don't be late again.
早く起きる ように しなさい - Try to wake up early.


4-2. 
In the following examples, ようにします means "I will try to". 
知らせる ように します - I will try to report.  
あなたのいう ように します - I'll do as you advise.


4-3.
You can use ように to ask someone to do something. 

電話する ように 伝えて下さい - Please ask him to call me.  
12時にここに来る ように してください - Can you arrange to be here at noon?  


5-1. 
In the following examples, ようになる means "become able to". 

日本語がうまく話せる ように なりたい - I want to become able to speak better Japanese.
泳げる ように なった - I learned how to swim.　


5-2.
You can express "change" by using ようになる. The ようになる does not express an ability but the status or a habit in the following examples.

酒を飲む ように なった - I drink alcohol now.
彼は私と話さない ように なった - He doesn't talk with me anymore. 
毎朝新聞を読むようになった - I read a newspaper every morning now

7.
In the following examples, ように means "in order to". 

電車に間に合う ように 急いだ - I hurried so as to catch the train.
友人に追いつく ように 走った - I ran to catch up with my friends.

 
8.
You can use ように when you wish something. You can omit the rest of the sentence after ように.

成功できる ように 祈ってます - I am praying for your success.
彼が長生きします ように - May he live long!
良い年になります ように - I hope you have another good year! 



It was very difficult to categorize them. I might not be able to categorize them correctly, and there may be other usages.

I will try to explain ような next time.

