
Personal Pronouns in Japanese

Japanese people rarely use personal pronouns. It's not unnatural to say 父 or お父さん repeatedly in Japanese conversation when you are talking about your father. If you use 彼 for your father, the listener would think you really hate your father. If someone asks you "田中さんはいますか?" and Tanaka-San isn't there, ”田中さんはいません" sounds more natural than "彼はいません."彼/彼女 are rather used to mean boyfriend/girlfriend in Japanese. 
彼ら is also rarely used. We usually pick up one of a person of the group and call them "〜さんたち. 

You should be careful when you use あなた. Since あなた is basically used for equal or lower rank person, you should avoid using あなた in conversation. Although あなた is used in textbooks and I also sometimes use it in example sentences, it's because there is no proper term to mean "you." You should use their name instead of "you" in real Japanese conversation. 
(There is an exception. Some women use あなた for their husband or boyfriend.) 
When you make a speech in front of many people and talk to them, you should use 皆さん or 皆様. あなた達 sounds rude. If you are a shop clerk, you have to call customers "お客様" or "お客さん." If you use あなた for them, you would lose them as    customers. Even when you are talking with someone you don't know his name (, for example, he might happen to sit on a seat next to you,) you should avoid using あなた. You can ask him without using あなた: "どこに行くんですか?" or "どの野球チームのファンですか?" are natural ways to ask.

The rule of how to call each other in Japanese family is very interesting. Married couple calls their partner by their name until a first child is born. However, a man calls his wife "お母さん" or "ママ" and a woman call her husband "お父さん" or "パパ" after the first child is born. When a second child is born, the first child is called "お兄ちゃん/お姉ちゃん" from all people in the family. How to call each other is determined by the view of the youngest person in the family. That means your parents can call your oldest-son "お兄ちゃん" and they can call you "お父さん/お母さん." Only the youngest person in their family is always called by his/her name. Older people can call younger people by their name if they want, but younger people rarely call older people by their name. (If you have two older brothers, お兄ちゃん follows their name: 太郎お兄ちゃん, 二郎お兄ちゃん.)
