
A Little Rude Expressions in Japanese

1. 〜なさい
〜なさい is very rude expression. You shouldn't use this expression even for your best friends. It's often used when you are angry for lower lank person's attitudes.
静かにしなさい - Be quiet!
きちんと野菜を食べなさい - Eat vegetables. 

2. "〜たいですか?" "欲しいですか?"
You shouldn't say "〜たいですか?" or "欲しいですか?" to your boss or clients. It sounds a little rude.

先週、ベルギーに行ってチョコレートを買ってきました。欲しいですか？
- I visited Belguim last week and bought chocolates. Do you want some?
It's okay to say this Japanese sentence for your friends. However, you shouldn't say that to your boss. It sounds as if you have a power to give a permission to eat. "よかったら、どうぞ" or "ぜひ、食べてみてください" sounds nice. If you were the boss, you can say "No, thanks" if you don't like sweets or you can't eat sweets because of your diseases. It's not rude.

今からバーにビールを飲みに行くんですが、行きたいですか?
- We are going to a bar to drink beer. Do you want to go with us?
This Japanese sentence also sounds rude. The reason is the same as the chocolate's case. You should say "よかったら、いっしょに行きませんか?" Even if he is your friend, "行きたい?" sounds a little rude. You can say "行く?" for your friends.

If you were a waiter, you shouldn't say "コーヒーのおかわりが欲しいですか？(Would you like another cup of coffee?)" You should say "おかわりはいかがですか？" or "おかわりをお持ちしましょうか?"

3. 〜してあげます
You can use あげる to describe past events.
今日、田中さんに英語を教えてあげました - I taught English to Tanaka-san today.
彼らに東京を案内してあげました - I guided them around Tokyo.

However, the following Japanese expressions sound a little rude. These sound as if the speaker regards the listener as a lower rank person.
英語を教えてあげますよ - I can teach you English.
東京を案内してあげましょうか？ - Can I guide you around Tokyo?

It's okay to use them for your friends and some listeners who aren't your friends may not hate these expressions, but "教えましょうか?" and "案内しましょうか?" sound much better. 
Similarly, when you are giving a lesson, "英語のTHEの使い方について説明してあげます (I'll teach you the usage of THE in English.)" sounds a little rude; so you should say "THEの使い方について説明します."



